feat: Add documentation for UI Unit Testing with Spring (#1419)
vaadin/docs: articles/tools/testbench/ui-unit-testing/spring-tests.asciidoc

To be able to instantiate such views and handle navigation in the correct way, Vaadin needs special implementations for internal components, like [classname]`SpringInstantiator`.
UI Unit Testing provides specialized base test classes that integrates with Spring Testing Framework: [classname]`SpringUIUnitTest`, for JUnit 5, and [classname]`SpringUIUnit4Test`, for JUnit 4.

Subclasses can therefore rely on all features offered Spring Testing Framework.
The test class can be annotated with [annotationname]`@ContextConfiguration`, to give a reduced [classname]`ApplicationContext` for a faster startup, or apply the [annotationname]`@SpringBootTest` annotation for more complex scenarios.

.Spring test example
[source,java]
----
@ContextConfiguration(classes = ViewTestConfig.class)
class ViewTest extends SpringUIUnitTest {

}

@Configuration
class ViewTestConfig {

        @Bean
        GreetingService myService() {
                return new TestingGreetingService();
        }
}
----

.Spring Boot test example
[source,java]
----
@SpringBootTest
class ViewTest extends SpringUIUnitTest {

}
----

[[testbench.uiunit.setup-view-access-control]]

> == Setup View Access Control
> 
> To apply view access control, Vaadin requires a [classname]`ViewAccessChecker` to be registered as [classname]`BeforeEnterListener` for the UI.
> For [annotationname]`@SpringBootTest` annotated tests, the checker is automatically created and configured.
> However, when testing with a restricted ApplicationContext, you may want to perform the setup by your own in a [classname]`Configuration` class,
> by providing a [classname]`VaadinServiceInitListener` that executes the step mentioned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Set Up View Access Control

To apply view access control, Vaadin requires a [classname]`ViewAccessChecker` to be registered as a [classname]`BeforeEnterListener` for the UI.
For [annotationname]`@SpringBootTest` annotated tests, the checker is automatically created and configured.
However, when testing with a restricted ApplicationContext, you may want to perform the setup yourself in a [classname]`Configuration` class by providing a [classname]`VaadinServiceInitListener` that executes this step.
```

> .Setup ViewAccessChecker for plain Spring project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Set Up a ViewAccessChecker for a plain Spring project
```

[source,java]
----
@Configuration
class TestViewSecurityConfig {
    
    @Bean
    VaadinServiceInitListener setupViewSecurityScenario() {
        SpringViewAccessChecker viewAccessChecker = new SpringViewAccessChecker(new AccessAnnotationChecker());
        viewAccessChecker.setLoginView(LoginView.class);
        return event -> {
            event.getSource().addUIInitListener(uiEvent -> {
                uiEvent.getUI().addBeforeEnterListener(viewAccessChecker);
            });
        };
    }
}
----

> If using Vaadin Spring Add-On, you can instead import the out-of-the box [classname]`ViewAccessCheckerInitializer`, that only requires to define a [classname]`ViewAccessChecker` bean. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the Vaadin Spring Add-On, you can instead import the out-of-the box [classname]`ViewAccessCheckerInitializer`, which only requires you to define a [classname]`ViewAccessChecker` bean. 
```

.Setup ViewAccessChecker with Vaadin Spring Add-On
[source,java]
----
@Configuration
@Import({ViewAccessCheckerInitializer.class})
class TestViewSecurityConfig {
    
    @Bean
    ViewAccessChecker viewAccessChecker() {
        return new SpringViewAccessChecker(new AccessAnnotationChecker());
    }
}
----

[[testbench.uiunit.spring-security]]
== Testing With Spring Security

> Vaadin comes with built-in security helpers that enable annotation based view access control mechanism, which integrates well with Spring Security.
> When using [classname]`SpringUIUnitTest`, if Spring Security is present on classpath, the mock environment is instructed to fetch authentication details from Spring [classname]`SecurityContextHolder`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vaadin comes with built-in security helpers that enable the annotation-based view access control mechanism, which integrates well with Spring Security.
When using [classname]`SpringUIUnitTest`, if Spring Security is present on the classpath, the mock environment is instructed to fetch authentication details from Spring [classname]`SecurityContextHolder`.
```

With this support, you can use Spring Security test annotations, such as [annotationname]`@WithMockUser`, [annotationname]`@WithAnonymousUser` or [annotationname]`@WithUserDetails`, to simulate different authentication scenarios with test method granularity.

> More information is available at https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/servlet/test/method.html#test-method-withmockuser[Spring Security documentation] site.
> Authentication details are available before creating the UI instance and navigating to the default route, so redirects to login view does not happen, when simulating logged in users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information is available on the https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/servlet/test/method.html#test-method-withmockuser[Spring Security documentation] site.
Authentication details are available before creating the UI instance and navigating to the default route, so redirects to the login view are not performed when simulating logged-in users.
```

In the same way, custom redirect logic for authenticated users works as expected.

To use Spring Security test annotations, first make sure the dependency is added to the project.

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
        <groupId>org.springframework.security</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-security-test</artifactId>
        <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

> Then extend [classname]`SpringUIUnitTest` and annotate test methods on order to setup an authentication scenario.
> For simplest use cases, use [annotationname]`@WithMockUser` or [annotationname]`@WithAnonymousUser`, providing username and roles that should be granted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then extend [classname]`SpringUIUnitTest` and annotate test methods in order to set up an authentication scenario.
For the simplest use cases, use [annotationname]`@WithMockUser` or [annotationname]`@WithAnonymousUser`, providing the username and roles that should be granted.
```

> .Tests with mocked users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Tests with mock users
```

[source,java]
----
@SpringBootTest
public class ViewSecurityTest extends SpringUIUnitTest {

    @Test
    @WithAnonymousUser
    void anonymousUser_protectedView_redirectToLogin() {
        navigate("protected", LoginView.class);
    }

    @Test
    @WithAnonymousUser
    void anonymousUser_publicView_signInLinkPresent() {
        // public view is default page
        Assertions.assertInstanceOf(PublicView.class, getCurrentView());

        Assertions.assertTrue(
                $(Anchor.class).withText("Sign in").first().isUsable(),
                "Sign in link should be available for anonymous user");
    }

    @Test
    @WithMockUser(username = "admin", roles = "ADMIN")
    void adminUser_adminView_viewShown() {
        navigate(AdminRoleView.class);

        Assertions.assertTrue(
                $(Avatar.class).first().getComponent().isVisible(),
                "Avatar should be visible for logged users");
    }
}
----

> When custom User objects or complex grant rules should be used, provide a custom [classname]`UserDetailsService` and annotate test method with [annotationname]`@WithUserDetails`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When custom User objects or complex grant rules should be used, provide a custom [classname]`UserDetailsService` and annotate the test method with [annotationname]`@WithUserDetails`.
```

> .Tests with mocked UserDetailsService

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Tests with mock UserDetailsService
```
